So what is in your control.
Well one of the biggest things that you need to look at is the number of backers that you're getting
per day.
So the rate of back increase essentially.
And this is actually how many people are pledging your project per day or per hour.
If you're already popular.
So if you look at Qik track for any given project that was successful.
So we've taken the coolest cool project and you look at the number of backers that they got per day.
It was highest towards day three day four which is when the media started picking them up and also towards
the end when the project was about.
And this is when they were being listed on Kickstarter as popular pages.
So the important thing to focus on is not your total number of backers but how many backers you're getting
per day.
Think about it this way if you get 50 backers on day one that's 50 backers per day.
But if you get 50 backers on day 10 that's only five back as day.
So that number the number of backers per day will contribute towards where you rank within that popular
page whether if you display right at the top you know within the top 10 where you're most likely to
be discovered or if you're below the fold i.e. people have to click on a button to see the next page
and the next page we all know that nobody really cares about Google's page to a page three search listings.
And equally you know the high rank on the popular page the more likely it is that people will click
on it and discover your project.
So focus on your number back as per day.
Now from our data in order to get onto the categories popular page so the popular page for technology
or popular for design you need to have about 43 backers coming in per day and to get onto the overall
popular page you need about 76 backas per day so that's quite a lot of numbers.
And how can you fill those up.
Well think about your pledges.
You need a low tier pledge and in most projects you'll see that people have a really low tier a pledge
like around $1 or $5 and that's just meant to act as an encouragement where people don't really get
anything tangible is just to support your project.
So for example you can say he pledged $5 you'll be able to access all the updates for the project which
can be back only other times people say you know we'll give you a sticker or we'll give you some digital
asset.
Thank you card.
I would advise that if you're going for the low tier pledged to try and increase your number of backers
to try and make this something that is digital and replicable because you don't really want to have
to spend a huge amount of time delivering to this team.
So usually what works quite well is you know to list all the people who've pledged $10 on your Web site
as a way of saying thank you.
Or sending people a individual email thanking them for pledging or sending them some sort of digital
asset like a digital poster or digital infor graphic whatever it is that's relevant to your product
to boost up that low tier pledge.
In most cases your low tier pledges are going to be your family and friends and people who really believe
in the cause behind your project.
If there is one.
So my advice is always have a low tip pledge and make it something that can be automated or replicable.
That way you will get a lot of people backing because it's very low effort.
You know $5 or two dollars.
It's not a big deal and you boost up that number of backers per day metric that helps you rank in the
kickstart algorithm.
So this is the part where you call upon all your friends and all your friendship and just say hey please
just you know pledge $3 or $5 depending on the type of friends you have.
This might be really easy or might be really hard.
And one of the things that people do that works really well is having a launch party.
So on the day where your Kickstarter is about to go live making it live and then having people at the
party contribute maybe like $2 or $3 for your low tier and you providing the booze for the party.
That usually tends to help you boost up your initial numbers very very quickly and gives you a large
number of backers from day one.
The next thing that is really important in you ranking on the Kickstarter algorithm is the percentage
funded and it's all about that progress bar at the end of the day.
Firstly the social proof.
So when people see that a project is almost funded or has gone quite a lot the way they're more likely
to pledge and help you out and push you you know we all have that kind of completion OCD.
So like when I created to do list I want to tick them off and it's the drive to take them off I mean
do a lot of the task is really weird.
I know but I think a lot of people have this wanting something to be completed.
Dr. psychological can't really explain it but this is one of those things when your project is almost
completed.
People have a need to try and push it towards the end.
And in most of the projects that we looked at in our data you need to be about 65 percent funded on
day one in order to get onto the popular page.
And on average it took most of those projects that were listed on the popular page about 5.9 days to
get to 100 percent funded.
So that's a really short time period when you consider that the average length of campaigns are about
35 to 40 days.
So you really want to become fully funded 100 percent funded basically from day one.
So there's two ways of going about this you can either go for a high pledge i.e. if you know that you're
going to get lots of pledges from your followers or from your backers or your subscribers.
Then you know that you're going to get a lot of pledges and you're going to succeed on your 100 percent
goal pretty quickly.
Or the alternative is just to set a low goal.
So we know that that number that percentage funded number be it you know 40 percent funded or 100 percent
funded.
Or in our case something like 3000 percent funded that number helps you rank in the kickstart algorithm
and being able to rank on them means that you'll get discovered by more people which means more pledges
as a positive enforcement loop.
So either go for a low goal when you're not really sure how many backers you're going to be able to
bring to the platform or if you know that you have a lot of people who are going to be pledging then
you can go for a slightly higher goal.
So for us we actually set the goal at something quite ridiculous.
We said that some 150 pounds which was something that we knew we were definitely going to be have to
get within the first 24 hours.
So our aim was to get to 100 percent funded within the first 24 hours so that we get that boost alongside
with the newly listed campaign boost and that will help us rank on Kickstarter.
So that took us about two hours actually in the end to complete and that initial traction really helped
start pulling in Kickstarter backers from day one which was really important.
So the thing to remember about Kickstarter though is that it is usually all or nothing.
So you either get to a goal or you don't get any of the money.
And that means that you have to work out how much is going to cost you to produce the thing are you
going to produce for us it was a digital item.
So we knew that we were going to go and build this online platform.
We knew that we were going to produce the things that we said we were going to make anyways so it didn't
really matter so much where we set the goal and it was purely for optimization purposes.
But if you are making a product from scratch especially a physical product where you've got prototyping
costs you've got manufacturing costs you've got maybe warehousing costs a whole bunch of things.
Make sure that you get your numbers right because otherwise it might be that you actually end up at
a net loss from your successful Kickstarter which is not really all that fun either.
So remember that if you have a physical product think long and hard about how much it's going to cost
you to make these things per unit.
Maybe for you know 100 units or a thousand units and then work out backwards how much your goal needs
to be so that you don't end up losing out and you have a comfortable security cushion so that even if
unpredictable things happen that you don't end up being worse off by a successful Kickstarter campaign.
And we're going to talk a little bit more about how even you know projects that were raised millions
ended up actually and a net loss because they didn't do their numbers before the campaign so launch
day success is mostly down to the traffic that you're going to bring.
So you're going to be hitting your email list.
You're going to be hitting up influences who you've lined up and you're going to be hitting up existing
backers that you know we're going to go into this in a lot more detail in the traffic module of this
course.
But essentially all that initial first few days that curve that steep curve is mostly going to be your
own effort and you need to make sure that within the first 24 at least you know within 48 hours that
you can hit that 100 percent goal.
So you're going to have to be driving a lot of traffic.
And we're going to show you how to do that in the next module in fact.
So the last thing we're going to talk about that we found has a significant impact at least with our
data on the Kickstarter ranking algorithm is the amount that you raised per day.
So we spoke about the number of backers per day which is almost easier to game because you can have
the low tier pledges but at the end of the day to kickstart it's all about the cold hard cash.
How much of it that you're bringing in to Kickstarter per day remember that Kickstarter is taking a
10 percent cut of whatever it is that you make.
So it makes sense for them to push the projects that are bringing in the most money.
So based on our data the project that appeared on the popular page of Kickstarter on average raised
about twelve thousand six hundred dollars on day one.
So thats how much money that most projects which rank on the popular page brought in on the first day.
So there is a little bit of pressure but thats what the data show thats how much money that most of
the projects that showed up on the popular page of Kickstarter managed to raise on day one.
So if you have a look again at Qik track you can see that the coolest Coola didn't actually do you know
amazingly compared to Obviously the rest of that data on day one was pretty much the lowest amount that
they raised.
And this was before they got picked up by press and they had this hugely successful campaign where they
actually ended up losing money.
But that's beside the point.
But you can see then amount raised per day.
And for them that average line is resting around 250 K which is kind of ridiculous.
And you don't have to expect that your project will do the same it doesn't need to to rank on the Kickstarter
algorithm.
Now of course if you think about it it's kind of a competitive sport ranking because the projects that
show up there are only the active projects.
So while it makes sense to put your project on Kickstarter at a hot season usually summer and right
before Christmas it might also make sense for it to be on there at a slightly cooler season where there's
less projects vying for that top space in Kickstarter and you do comparatively better in terms your
number of pledges amount pledged per day.
So what I would say is that before reaching your goal.
The thing that matters is your percent funded.
So before you reach your goal whether you are at 20 percent funded or 80 percent funded that is going
to determine where you rank in Kickstarter to a large extent.
But after you've reached that goal then it's more or less your funding amount.
So the total amount of money that you have brought in through Kickstarter or Indiegogo that is going
to help you rank because at the end the day when you analyze incentives for a platform which is all
or nothing up to the point where you raise your goal it's all about how fast is that your reaching your
goal.
And the percentage of your goal that you've reached so even if your goal is like you know 100 pounds
it makes sense that if you reach maybe 50 pounds within an hour that's half of your goal reached within
a very short period of time.
But after you reach your goal then it really is very much grinding against all of the other projects
out there and these platforms like Kickstarter and Gogo are going to start looking at how much money
you're going to bring them at the end of your project.
So it's going to depend more on your funding amount and more specifically on your funding rates so funding
amount of funding per day.
Now another thing that we saw in the data that contributed towards ranking on the Kickstarter algorithm
to some extent is the amount of campaign traffic so the amount of hits that your web site was getting
per day.
And this was really a small contribution from our data anyways.
And that traffic is more or less and you control it depends on how many people you drive drive towards
that page.
So how much social media marketing you do how much content marketing how many cross-promotion you do
with other campaigns whether here in a pig whether you paid for and whether you got any press and as
I said we're going to cover all of these things and more in the traffic module.
But obviously the more traffic the able to bring to your site and to Kickstarter and those people who
might have never been on Kickstarter might end up discovering other Kickstarter project.
It makes sense that if you're somebody who's pulling in a lot of that traffic that the platform should
help promote you in their hour in them.
And the final thing that we saw that contributed towards the ranking which you can control is the number
of comments per day.
So both in your updates and also in your main project there is an area where backers can comment on
your project.
Now if you're browsing through the Kickstarter platform and you see a project that has over 10000 comments
after the project is finished that usually means that something terrible has happened to the backers
or to the project where people are not getting what they want and they're mostly complaining on there.
But during your campaign if you are seeing a lot of comments they tend to be encouraging comments or
questions or queries.
And that means that there's a lot of interaction on your project and it means that people are interested
in your campaign which makes sense for it to be promoted higher.
So if you look at the comments per day on Kulis Coola you can see that around the middle there there
is a huge blip.
For some reason where on one day they had almost 700 comments.
And the reason for this is because they put out an update asking all their backers What are your favorite
colors that you would like your cooler to come in.
And you had maybe 700 backers who commented I want magenta I want fuchsia whatever it is.
And that was an artificial way of basically getting people to comment on their project and help them
rank on the popular algorithm.
So this might be something that you might want to consider for your project as well you know.
So the easiest thing is colors so you know if you're a hardware project then say you know what colors
should we make the products in.
Or if you are a jewelry project you know what are the most popular sizes for the jewelry whatever it
is.
Think about what you can do to try and get people to comment on your project.
So a large part of commenting on Kickstarter is kind of our community building so it always makes sense
for you as the creator to be responsive and to be reachable on the platform.
So whenever somebody comment something you should always hit a reply and comment back just to show that
you are present you are aware and it gives people confidence.
People who have supported you based on just the video really giving you their money because they trust
in you.
You really have to do quite a bit of community building in the comments section to try and reassure
people and to sort of group group your back is around you as a community.
So when people feel like things are not happening when you initially projected them to be so this is
usually after the project when youre not delivering on the days that you promised to deliver.
People tend to get very upset unless you keep them updated regularly maybe on a weekly basis.
So see the commenting section as a way of building community and keeping in touch with your backers.